So here I am logged in into my Digital Ocean account.
In networking I can go to firewalls.
I have the Kubernetes-cluster file.
And here I already did it, I added two rules.
Two new ones, http and hps.
So here you can just pick hp and hps.
And then it's always TCP, port AT for HTP
port 443 for HTTPS and then you going to allow all IPv4,
all IPv6 and this will allow all traffic.
If you forget to do this
and you're gonna create the SL certificate is going to fail,
because what lets encrypt is going to do,
it's going to try to connect to your IP address.
And if it cannot connect, then the verification mechanism
is going to fail.
Let's try to run an application now.
So let's open this README again.
We did the nginx ingress.
And we're going to start an application.
This is just an example application
and I'm going to start.
I'll create them and I'll show you what's in them.
These are just the deployments.
Kubernetes demo.
It will just show us, hello world.
If you have a service for this
and then we're going to connect this
with the ingress controller, my app ingress.
Here we have the ingress controller, kind ingress.
The name is myapp, this ingress controller,
and then we have rule.
The rules says that if the host is myapp.newtech.academy,
then this backend here, myapp,
the service in Kubernetes on port 80 on http.
So whenever I'm going to type this in my browser,
I should be able to connect to my app.
To be able to make this work,
you need a domain name.
You need to be able to edit your DNS.
If you're using (mumbles), that is in route 53.
If you just register the domain name anywhere,
you should most importantly have the DNS control panel,
and that's what I'm going to use.
In this DNS control panel,
you will then say myapp.newtech.academy,
goes to an IP address.
So what IP addresses can go to.
Let's go back to our Digital Ocean control center.
Here we have the monster and one, two, three notes.
What I'm going to do is I'm just going
to take one node, node one
and put a DNS records from myapp.newtech.academy
to this IP address.
Now with Digital Ocean,
the downside is that these IP addresses can change.
This node can go down and then you will use this one.
So the solution for Digital Ocean
is that you can also use floating IP addresses.
So you can click here
and then you can enable a floating IP address.
And this IP address, you can then manually or automatically
move from one node to another node.
Now, we are using Digital Ocean just as an example.
You're going to maybe run something on Prime.
Maybe use another cloud divider.
So how exactly you going to conquer this,
it's a bit out of scope of this course.
You just have to make sure that the IP address
that you're going to pick now is either static.
It can also be a static IP address
or can move from one node to another node.
As long as this node is running, there's no issue.
So for the demo, I will just use only one IP address.
Only this IP address to confer as a DNS record.
This is the Namecheap dashboard.
My domain name is registered at Namecheap.
So I just logged in here.
I bought this domain name years ago.
You can then click on the domain name,
and then there's advanced DNS
where you can then add records.
So we can add a new record here.
It's of type a, host is gonna be myapp
and then the IP address is then going to
be the IP address of the first node.
And then you click on save the changes.
And then it'll be added here, myapp, this IP.
I also has www.myapp with the same IP address.
But you don't have to.
You can use one or more records.
So this point to this IP address and DNS
is sketched so it's not easy to change this.
So this should be a static IP address
in case you are using Digital Ocean.
You can use a floating IP address like I explained,
otherwise, on Prime, what other people also do
is to put a (mumbles) in front of your Kubernetes cluster
and use that IP address as a static IP address.
So then if I now try to go to this URL
that should actually work.
Let me try this with curl.
So if I go to this IP address with the node
I get a default backend 404.
This is the default backend of the engine x controller.
Now I should also be able to go to myapp.newtech.academy
and I get the return with the 503 error.
So let's have a look at our pots.
Myapp is running now for eight minutes.
Let's have a look at the service.
Myapp is running for 3,000.
Let's have a look at our ingress.
And it seems that I made a small mistake here
in my app ingress.
This pot is running on port 3000,
but the search port was set up 80.
So let's apply this.
And then now it should work.
It says hello world.
So myapp.newtech.academy, the ingress controller is working.
I set the firewall.
Let's encrypt should also be able to access it
once I do the verification.
So what's next?
I can create the certification manager.
I can do helm install,
or the certification manager in the kube system.
It's gonna be stable slash/cert-manager.
Cert-manager has been deployed successfully.
In order to begin issuing certificates,
we need a clusterissuer or issuer
and then we need a certificate.
So I already prepared as a front,
we have an issuer for staging and for pots.
You can only do 20 requests per week too lets encrypt
so it's best to do staging first
to make sure everything works
and only then to use the production.
I'm using the issuer.
You can also use cluster issuer.
So this is only for the default landspace,
plus the issuer is for all the name spaces.
You need to enter your email address here
so I will leave it like that
and I am going to enter my email address here,
but when you do this demo,
you will have to replace this line as well.
I'll do the same in the production one.
And then I'm going to kubectl create the issuer for staging
and the issuer for production.
So those are the issuers.
They just describe
that less encryptable issuer a certificate for us.
(mumbles) again.
It is going to use this staging API for lets encrypt.
And this email address will notify me if anything goes wrong
with your renewal of certificate.
If it's going to expire for instance.
Then we're going to have a certificate for staging.
This is of kind certificates.
The name is myapp.
I'm going to store my certificate in the secrets
called myapp-tls-staging.
And then the issuer is going to be myapp-letsncrypt-staging,
which is the issuer I just created.
Commonname is myapp.newtech.academy.
You can also add multiple host names.
So for instance, if you have the domain name itself,
the apex and the (mumbles),
they can uncommon these lines
and change this into your domain.
This is done for the verification process.
You're going to use hp as a verification process.
Ingress controller is going to be myapp.
What's going to happen
is it's going to edit our ingress controller,
because our ingress controller is responsible
for this domain.
Let's encrypt all issues the same
for the verification process.
So what's going to happen here is there
is gonna be an extra rule that says if you
hit slash in any specific URL, then to go a separate app,
which will then respond with the correct data
that is necessary for verification process.
So you normally wouldn't see much of this
because this all happens automatically.
You're going to create this certificate staging
and then we can check what is happening
using kubectl get certificate.
We have a myapp certificate of nine seconds old.
I will describe this and then it says
I don't have a TLS certificate,
so I'm going to prepare one with esure,
which is letsencrypt.
It's going to present the challenge.
It's going to perform a self-check.
So you can have a little bit ingress,
describe ingress.
So now you see that there were updates 17 seconds ago
and what happens is that they will rule injected
to make this verification work.
So the certificate was issued successfully
and then there's also a renewal scheduled.
This is a stating certificate so it's not going
to be recognized by the browsers.
You need a production certificate
and that one will be then recognized.
How do we configure certificates?
So edit the myapp-ingress.
And here we can just enable DLS.
The secret name is myapp-tls-staging.
The host is myapp.newtech.academy.
I can do a kubectl apply -f myapp-ingress.
And then this will use the newly created certificate.
So now I will just show it in the browser.
It says your connection is not private
for myapp.newtech.academy.
Authority invalid.
So we have the new certificate
but it's a staging certificate.
It's not recognized.
If you want to have a recognized one,
then we have to use the production certificates.
So that's what I'm going to come here now.
So I already kubectl added the issuer.
Let's have a look at the production certificates.
Looks exactly the same
but you're going to use different secrets.
And we're going to use a different issuer.
Kubeclt create certificate-prod.yml.
Let me just delete first the old one.
You'll need a stage one to works.
I'm just going to create the production one now.
And I can describe certificate.
It says the myapp-tls-prod is not found
so it's going to create the certificate
and now it's going to use the production API
instead of the staging API.
And so if we describe our ingress again.
Now we see we are on time.
The rule has been edited.
The path has been injected
and this is actually the verification process
that's going on.
So everything that hits slash.well-known
and then all the rest,
it goes to an app that has been spun up
for the purpose of the verification for less encrypt.
This will disappear again.
Now it's already disappeared
so you have to be lucky to see it.
And then if you describe their certificate,
the certificate is now issued.
We still need to change our ingress.
Myapp ingress.
I will change this in prod.
I will apply this.
This is come here.
I see my hello world and it is secure.
The certificate is valid.
So I have myapp.newtech.academy.
It has issued my let's encrypt authority.
So this is how you then can create for your website
so that it is encrypted.
It has been ingress controller and then for,
and then use this DNS name, myapp.newtech.academy
to forward it to the IP address of one of the nodes.
But as I explained, there's also different ways
to make this work.
You can use a floating IP, static IP, a (mumbles).
You just have to make sure high availability,
when the node disappears, when the node crashes,
that the IP is still available.
Easier by moving this IP around to another nodes,
'cause every node exposes port 80 and 443
with this ingress confirmation or by other mechanisms.
So this is it for this demo.
We now have a valid SLR certificate
that we then can use for our applications.
There's a lot of configuration involved
and there's a lot of things that can go wrong.
To debug it, first of all,
make sure that your firewall is open for let's encrypt.
And second, there are some processes in the,
there are some pots in the kube-system name space
that you can take the locks off
so if something goes wrong,
you can do logs off the cert manager
of the namespace kube system.
And they have two containers
so then you specify minus c ingression or cert manager.
And here you can see what happened
when we asked for a certificate.
If anything goes wrong,
then you will see your errors here.
You can type in the error in the get up of cert manager
or in Google or at the (mumbles) Q and A,
you can ask questions
and you can also post your errors
if you don't get it working.